README.md, before:

The triangle program benchmark

Use with minimal 14 tests covering all the code in

Fitness Landscape of the Triangle Program,
William B. Langdon and Mark Harman 
presented at the PPSN-2016 Workshop on Landscape-Aware Heuristic Search,
Nadarajen Veerapen and Gabriela Ochoa (editors), 17-21 September
http://www.cs.ucl.ac.uk/fileadmin/UCL-CS/research/Research_Notes/rn1605.pdf

Data set http://www.cs.ucl.ac.uk/staff/W.Langdon/ppsn2016/triangle/


Visualising the Search Landscape of the Triangle Program,
William B. Langdon and Nadarajen Veerapen and Gabriela Ochoa, in
EuroGP-2017, M. Castelli and J. McDermott and L. Sekanina, Eds.,
LNCS 10196, Amsterdam, 19-21 April, Springer. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-55696-3_7
https://dspace.stir.ac.uk/bitstream/1893/24848/1/triangle.pdf

Data set http://www.cs.ucl.ac.uk/staff/W.Langdon/egp2017/triangle/

Original code distribution http://www.cs.ucl.ac.uk/staff/W.Langdon/ftp/gp-code/triangle.tar.gz

<p>
<hr>
<P>
Code for slides in 
<a href="http://www.cs.ucl.ac.uk/staff/W.Langdon/triangle_4-nov-2021">
http://www.cs.ucl.ac.uk/staff/W.Langdon/triangle_4-nov-2021</a>
<UL>
<li><a href="information.awk">information.awk</a>
gawk script to process huge volume of data generated by main2.c
and calculate mutual information between each input and
<UL>
<li>the Triangle Program output
<li>the internal triang variable at various lines inside the program
after triang is (conditionally) updated.
</UL>
<pre>
./a.out | gawk -f information.awk > information.dat
</pre>(takes 4.4GB and a several minutes)

<li>information.dat
<br>
Output of information.awk (not in github)

<li><a href="information_filter.awk">information_filter.awk</a>
<br>preprocess output of main2.c for information.gnu
<pre>
./a.out | gawk -f information_filter.awk > information_filter.out
</pre>

<li>information_filter.out
<br>
Output of information_filter.awk (not in github) for use by information.gnu

<li><a href="information.gnu">information.gnu</a>
<br>gnuplot script to show distribution of values held by
the internal triang variable at various lines inside the program
after each time it is conditionally updated.
Note lines are horizontal. 
This shows that not only is
the distribution the same for each of the three inputs
but also there is
no variation with input value.

<li>information.out
<br>
More recent version of output of information_filter.awk 
(again not in github) for use by information_return.gnu

<li><a href="information_return.gnu">information_return.gnu</a>
<br>like information.gnu
a gnuplot script to show distribution of values output by
the Triangle Program.
Again the distribution for each of the three inputs are
identical.
Note almost all return values are 4 (not a triangle)
and the other three values only occur if the input is positive.


<li><a href="isosceles.gnu">isosceles.gnu</a>
<br>Example gnuplot script to show 3D plot of three planes in 3D input space of
the Triangle Program corresponding to outputs
2 isosceles and 3 Equilateral
on the user's screen.
User interaction via mouse etc.
(Other values not plotted).
Assumes 8120601 test cases for the Triangle Program.

<li><a href="main2.c">main2.c</a>
<br>C file for instrumented version the Triangle Program
Generates 8120601 test outputs using triang.c

<!-- li main.c not uploaded to reduce confusion with main2.c
Tiny test hardness to run the Triangle Program in triangle.c
for all input values between -100 and +100
(total 8120601 test cases) !-->

<li><a href="README.md">README.md</a>
<br>This file

<li><a href="triang.c">triang.c</a>
<br>Instrumented version the Triangle Program and support routines for main2.c

<li><a href="triangle.c">triangle.c</a>
<br>Original C source the Triangle Program

<li><a href="triangle.gnu">triangle.gnu</a>
<br>gnuplot script to show three dimensional
distribution of values output by the Triangle Program.
Value 2 for isosceles triangles are shown as three planes.
To avoid swamping the display, value 1 for scalene triangles are 
sampled only every 5 (one in 125 in three dimensions).

<li><a href="triangle_h.awk">triangle_h.awk</a>
<br>Example of calculating Entropy.
Assumes 8120601 test cases for the Triangle Program
<pre>
gawk -f triangle_h.awk /dev/null
Equilateral     3     100 0.000012 0.000200839
Isosceles       2   22200 0.002734 0.0232779
not_a_triangle  4 7605851 0.936612 0.0884881
Scalene         1  492450 0.060642 0.245208

entropy in 22.9532     entropy out 0.357175</pre>

<li>triangle.scalene
<br>data file generated from triangle.out by triangle.gnu
(not in github)

<li>triang.out
<br>Distribution of values of internal variable triang
after each time it is (conditionally) updated.
(Not in github.)
<dl>
<dt>0</dt>line 11, after triang = 0;
<dt>1</dt>line 15, after triang conditionally incremented
<dt>3</dt>line 18, after triang conditionally increased by 2
<dt>3</dt>line 21, after triang conditionally increased by 3
</dl>
Assumes 8120601 test cases for the Triangle Program.
<pre>
0   0 1000000
0 tot 1000000
1   0  990000
1   1   10000
1 tot 1000000
2   0  980100
2   1    9900
2   2    9900
2   3     100
2 tot 1000000
3   0  970200
3   1    9900
3   2    9900
3   3    9900
3   6     100
3 tot 1000000
</pre>
</ul>

Commit message:

Add reference for jss/testcases_oracle.txt

README.md, after:

The triangle program benchmark

Used with minimal 14 tests covering all the code in
"Efficient Multi Objective Higher Order Mutation Testing with Genetic
Programming", Journal of Systems and Software, 83 (2010) pp2416-2430
doi:10.1016/j.jss.2010.07.027
(see jss/testcases_oracle.txt).

Fitness Landscape of the Triangle Program,
William B. Langdon and Mark Harman 
presented at the PPSN-2016 Workshop on Landscape-Aware Heuristic Search,
Nadarajen Veerapen and Gabriela Ochoa (editors), 17-21 September
http://www.cs.ucl.ac.uk/fileadmin/UCL-CS/research/Research_Notes/rn1605.pdf

Data set http://www.cs.ucl.ac.uk/staff/W.Langdon/ppsn2016/triangle/


Visualising the Search Landscape of the Triangle Program,
William B. Langdon and Nadarajen Veerapen and Gabriela Ochoa, in
EuroGP-2017, M. Castelli and J. McDermott and L. Sekanina, Eds.,
LNCS 10196, Amsterdam, 19-21 April, Springer. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-55696-3_7
https://dspace.stir.ac.uk/bitstream/1893/24848/1/triangle.pdf

Data set http://www.cs.ucl.ac.uk/staff/W.Langdon/egp2017/triangle/

Original code distribution http://www.cs.ucl.ac.uk/staff/W.Langdon/ftp/gp-code/triangle.tar.gz

<p>
<hr>
<P>
Code for slides in 
<a href="http://www.cs.ucl.ac.uk/staff/W.Langdon/triangle_4-nov-2021">
http://www.cs.ucl.ac.uk/staff/W.Langdon/triangle_4-nov-2021</a>
<UL>
<li><a href="information.awk">information.awk</a>
gawk script to process huge volume of data generated by main2.c
and calculate mutual information between each input and
<UL>
<li>the Triangle Program output
<li>the internal triang variable at various lines inside the program
after triang is (conditionally) updated.
</UL>
<pre>
./a.out | gawk -f information.awk > information.dat
</pre>(takes 4.4GB and a several minutes)

<li>information.dat
<br>
Output of information.awk (not in github)

<li><a href="information_filter.awk">information_filter.awk</a>
<br>preprocess output of main2.c for information.gnu
<pre>
./a.out | gawk -f information_filter.awk > information_filter.out
</pre>

<li>information_filter.out
<br>
Output of information_filter.awk (not in github) for use by information.gnu

<li><a href="information.gnu">information.gnu</a>
<br>gnuplot script to show distribution of values held by
the internal triang variable at various lines inside the program
after each time it is conditionally updated.
Note lines are horizontal. 
This shows that not only is
the distribution the same for each of the three inputs
but also there is
no variation with input value.

<li>information.out
<br>
More recent version of output of information_filter.awk 
(again not in github) for use by information_return.gnu

<li><a href="information_return.gnu">information_return.gnu</a>
<br>like information.gnu
a gnuplot script to show distribution of values output by
the Triangle Program.
Again the distribution for each of the three inputs are
identical.
Note almost all return values are 4 (not a triangle)
and the other three values only occur if the input is positive.


<li><a href="isosceles.gnu">isosceles.gnu</a>
<br>Example gnuplot script to show 3D plot of three planes in 3D input space of
the Triangle Program corresponding to outputs
2 isosceles and 3 Equilateral
on the user's screen.
User interaction via mouse etc.
(Other values not plotted).
Assumes 8120601 test cases for the Triangle Program.

<li><a href="main2.c">main2.c</a>
<br>C file for instrumented version the Triangle Program
Generates 8120601 test outputs using triang.c

<!-- li main.c not uploaded to reduce confusion with main2.c
Tiny test hardness to run the Triangle Program in triangle.c
for all input values between -100 and +100
(total 8120601 test cases) !-->

<li><a href="README.md">README.md</a>
<br>This file

<li><a href="triang.c">triang.c</a>
<br>Instrumented version the Triangle Program and support routines for main2.c

<li><a href="triangle.c">triangle.c</a>
<br>Original C source the Triangle Program

<li><a href="triangle.gnu">triangle.gnu</a>
<br>gnuplot script to show three dimensional
distribution of values output by the Triangle Program.
Value 2 for isosceles triangles are shown as three planes.
To avoid swamping the display, value 1 for scalene triangles are 
sampled only every 5 (one in 125 in three dimensions).

<li><a href="triangle_h.awk">triangle_h.awk</a>
<br>Example of calculating Entropy.
Assumes 8120601 test cases for the Triangle Program
<pre>
gawk -f triangle_h.awk /dev/null
Equilateral     3     100 0.000012 0.000200839
Isosceles       2   22200 0.002734 0.0232779
not_a_triangle  4 7605851 0.936612 0.0884881
Scalene         1  492450 0.060642 0.245208

entropy in 22.9532     entropy out 0.357175</pre>

<li>triangle.scalene
<br>data file generated from triangle.out by triangle.gnu
(not in github)

<li>triang.out
<br>Distribution of values of internal variable triang
after each time it is (conditionally) updated.
(Not in github.)
<dl>
<dt>0</dt>line 11, after triang = 0;
<dt>1</dt>line 15, after triang conditionally incremented
<dt>3</dt>line 18, after triang conditionally increased by 2
<dt>3</dt>line 21, after triang conditionally increased by 3
</dl>
Assumes 8120601 test cases for the Triangle Program.
<pre>
0   0 1000000
0 tot 1000000
1   0  990000
1   1   10000
1 tot 1000000
2   0  980100
2   1    9900
2   2    9900
2   3     100
2 tot 1000000
3   0  970200
3   1    9900
3   2    9900
3   3    9900
3   6     100
3 tot 1000000
</pre>
</ul>
